For the last five years of my life, I have been living with roommates - a long enough time for me to know the kinds of people I prefer to live with, and the kinds that don’t want to be around. Which is why, when I was told that I needed to share a room with another girl, I decided to do the choosing myself.
This would not be such an easy choice to make, but at least I had a few points on my side. First of all, I had lived in this one town all my life, and I had so many friends going to university at the same time as myself, so it would be no problem finding someone willing to share with me. Also, I figured that if I let the authorities chose someone for me to live with, then they probably would chose someone that I had never known before, and because it is so hard for me to make friends, I would take a very long time to get used to this new person.
With this in mind I decided that letting the school chose someone for me is not a good idea. Also, it would be so much better if I chose someone for myself because I have a lot of rules that govern my life and I expect whoever I live with to follow them. I sleep very early at night, something that many young people I know don't do. There is no guarantee that the person the school chooses for me is going to sleep as early as I do, therefore the most logical option is for me to find someone that can fit my needs. Also I am a vegetarian, and the slightest smell of meat anywhere around the house can make me get very sick, so I need to be sure that the person I live with either is a vegetarian like myself or is going to remember never to bring meat around me. The most important factor in me wanting to choose a roommate of my own is the fact that I love animals. Wherever I have lived, I have always had at least three cats living with me. I love animals so much and I possibly cannot live without them. Not everyone however shares this same passion that I do, infect, many young people do not have time to care for pets, and don't especially like them, or worst, are allergic to them. For this reason I need to find someone that shares this passion with me, or at least doesn't mind having pets around the house. If the school was to choose someone with whom I was so live, then for all I know, it could be someone who cannot stand the sight of pets.
One last reason I would want to choose a roommate for myself is the fact that I have a best friend with whom I have been sharing flats for five years. Now, both of us are accepted into this university, and I would love to continue being with her. We both get along very well, and I don't need to put in extra effort to start a good relationship all over again.
For these reasons, it is clear to me that I would never want the school authorities to find a flat mate for me when I can find one for myself - especially one that will completely suit me.