Computers are one of the most prominent and exceptional inventions of the last century. With the enhancement of human knowledge on electronics and machine based processing, computing and storage systems, human lives have been radically changed. Not only has the spheres of education and science and technology advanced as a result of its own offspring, the computer era, but also the whole world and its myriad problems have been solved by the computers, which man, its creator was unable to.
That computers have had an enormously positive impact on the lives of people, from the poorest of the poor to the richie-richs is a fact beyond contestation. While on one hand, when the computer revolution, especially the mainframes has given a new Life to the space age and mankind has thus been able to explore space to such an extent that space is no longer a mystery to us. On the other hand, the need based and intelligible use of computers has solved the greatest problems in the industry and agriculture as well. The tremendously useful and efficient control system instrumentation in industry has made productivity of plants rise in leaps and bounds. It has aided us to even such a great extent that the world economy has an new frontier called the IT or Knowledge sector based on the Computer system and its handling by humans. A government of any sovereign represents the people. Quoting Abraham Lincoln's famous
Words for a democratic government "is for the people, by the people and of the people”. Thus the primary job of any government, whether elected or not is to look after its people and hope for the collective betterment of its masses. The development of an economy is only a medium of fulfilling its basic duty of empowering and satisfying people's basic needs. Hence the reigns of economy in the hands of government are to be so directed as to suit and benefit its people the most. Addressing and fulfilling the basic needs, wants and desires of the people to as much level as possible are thus the foremost responsibility and a mandatory requirement for any government.
The immense aid to mankind that the computers have done so far has been a real good pointer as to whether it can be integrated to anything and everything of our lives. And, thus several scientists worldwide have been working on myriad platforms for developing several things to benefit mankind.
But, still, computers cannot feed the poor, can't cover his/her body or provide him a space to live in. This being the most basic needs which any government has to fulfill. Though in all these processes computer technology can well be implemented to best uses as a medium of improving the time and cost requirements at least. Thus it can be definitely seen that the computer technology at the current stage of development by itself can never achieve theses basic goals. A strong infrastructure is what facilitates to solve such basic problems.
So in my view, for the countries of developed world and some of the world’s developing economies it is but natural to invest hugely in computer technology for providing its people with a better and more prosperous future. But for the others, i.e. the underdeveloped countries and the one's in which most people still live below the poverty line it is important to think and allocate resources in such a fashion that the basic infrastructure for the people is developed and also the needs to march with times is served.