Many people believe that one can be successful if he /she is committed, honest, faithful or intelligence. But, the foundation of each of these qualities lies in believing the power the person has, and working accordingly to achieve the goal. There are many people, who are honest, beautiful, good and soft spoken, intelligent and even faithful, but only some are successful in achieving their goal. While all of these characteristics are equally important and act as the medium for success, the most important is the power to cope with circumstances and keep our spirit goes on in the most difficult situations.
As it is well said that we cannot direct the wind but we can adjust the sail, similarly, in the way to our destination, we will come across lot of obstacles, but we need to find the way to come across that situation. This is where the success lies. No matter how low we fall, but what matters is how high we bounce back Success can be measured by what we have and how much of the power we are using to achieve our goal. For, example while in playing games, it is sure that one team will win and other will lose, but the spirit is not just in winning but also in learning new techniques and improving the team sprit and cooperation. Winner team cannot always be successful, but the successful team is the one, which has improved a lot with respect to its earlier performance.
Though the person is honest, intelligent, faithful and committed, it is not sure that he will be successful. The most important rather than these are to know the environment and the need, and implementing best of the best ideas and actions. No matter how smaller step it can be, but it can bring great changes. As Shiva Khera has said, “Winners don’t do different things but they do things differently”, better explains the meaning of being successful. Success is not just winning, but also more than that is how much we are satisfied with whatever we are doing. So, all qualities like honesty, intelligence, and faithfulness are directly proportional to the success.
The definition of success for each of us may vary. Some may think root cause for success is honesty while others may think it is the commitment. But, in my opinion, where there is will there is power, so each of us should know our strength, and work accordingly to be successful. And we should measure our success not with others but with what we have and what we have achieved.