The people in our community welcomed the announcement of the government's plan to build a university. In fact, majority proposed that our community is a good place to locate the university. I whole-heartedly support their proposal.
Building a new university can offer a lot of opportunities to everybody. First, it will provide an excellent alternative to the existing university, which, unfortunately, cannot accommodate the growing numbers of students each year. Secondly, this will stop monopoly of education resulting to stagnation of the quality of education by creating a healthy competition to other institution to maintain and improve their standards of education.
Moreover, students can now have the options to choose which university they prefer and take courses, which they really like.
A new university also means more job opportunities especially for teachers, administrative staff and others who are in need of employment.
However, a new university can also create problems to the community, more universities in the community do not immediately mean better education. Sometimes, the quality of education suffers from quantity because school administrators tend to commercialize education to attract more students. The policies may become lax; the rules may bend to accommodate the whims of students in order to keep them.
A new university would also lead to an increase of migration of people who would like to avail higher education. This can lead to increased pollution and even crimes. The once peaceful community may become noisy and chaotic because of the increased number of people with different personalities.
In the end, all things in this world have advantages and disadvantages. In this case, even if building a new university can increase pollution, or even crimes, bring noise and possible chaos to the community, the benefits that it will give the people, especially the youth in providing them the means to finish their education and prepare them for their future life can outweigh all disadvantages.