Almost everyone in the world has friends. Friends were found anywhere at anytime. Some of our friends can be similar to us, and some of them can differ in many ways. Regardless of their similarities or differences, there are a few advantages of having such friends.
Having friends who are similar to us would be beneficial in which we can enjoy things together and share the same opinion. With friends who are alike, we can always enjoy going to mutual enjoyable places together such as going to clubs or watching movies. For example, Gee and I have no problems on finding a place to eat every time we go out because we both enjoy eating and spend time at the local hawkers downtown. In addition, having friends of mutual interest would provide us with companion to share our opinion. I have a few friends who are similar to myself and I found that I could share my opinion with them on almost everything. We have a good time tossing view with each other either in fashion, movies or even life. I believe that having friends who are similar to us would provide us with a smooth plan on almost anything.
However, having friends who are different from us would have a few advantage of its own. People always say that, "Opposite, attracts". Friends who are different from us would be able to criticize and introduce us to something new and different. I realize that friends who are different from us would be able to criticize on our opinion. Of course, not all of our opinions are good. Hence, having a friend with an opposite thought would provide us with a different view on a certain matter. I have been a friend with Nina for almost 5 years now. Despite of our differences in characteristic, Nina and I have never fight during our friendship. In fact, it was Nina who introduce me to things that I have never done before such as jungle tracking and eating sushi. Even though, neither jungle tracking nor sushi would be in my favorite list, it is fun and enjoyable to be able to experience such new things. Therefore, I believe that having friends who are different from us can provide us with unexpected experience in life.
Nevertheless, I would have preferred to choose a friend who are similar to me rather than friends who are different from me. I feel that friendship would be smoother and enjoyable by having friends who are similar to us. However, I never refuse a friendship offered by a friend who is different from myself.