People behave differently when they wear different clothes. Clothes certainly do have an influence on the behavior of the people. I strongly agree with this idea because I myself have seen practical examples from daily life.
Everyday we see people wearing all sorts of clothes. Many people wear different kind of clothes for different occasions. For example, formal clothes are generally worn for interviews, seminars, official meetings, and most of the places its a dress code for the employees. People are supposed to behave formally in formal dress. It implies that the man or woman in the formal dress has proper manners, behaves gently and carries high standards. Anybody wearing the formals acts to represent the glory of the dress. It is expected out of him/her to behave decently and carry high standards. No matter if that person is not capable of representing the code of dress, but when he/she is wearing the dress, the feeling comes alive to him/her and the result is what we see as the their behavior being different in that particular dress.
Same is true for informal or casuals as it is popularly known as. People like to be casual and carefree when they are inside an informal dress. The casual dress brings a feeling of fun and enjoyment with it. It let people to enjoy, play around and to be free from all the mundane Activities. No one can notice the artificial act of a person when he/she is in casuals. People also know that they are not supposed to be what they are not inside a casual.
Let us take another example of occasions where the dress code commands people. Talk of marriages and festivals and the whole picture becomes clear in mind. One can see the bride carrying that beautiful smile mixed with shyness, not only because of occasion, but also because of the dress. She knows that she is wearing the dress, which every girl aspires for, and she knows how she has to act when she wears it. It is applicable for the groom. He carries the dignity and charm with him because he knows that when he is wearing the wedding clothes, he has to act accordingly. He cannot act in the same way as he does when he is wearing casuals or formals.
People get ready for festivals not only with great enthusiasm and anxiety, but also with their special dresses. In many countries there is a dress code for different festivals. People are supposed to wear it and when they are inside that special dress, they have to be out of them and act as a person who best represents the dress. One can easily see the joy and charm on a person's face when he/she wears those special dresses. After all that is what is expected out of them when they wear it.
Different dress codes have been designed with the idea of making people act differently. The dress controls the person inside it. Hence I certainly feel that dress dictates the behavior of a person wearing it.