We meet strangers on a daily basis. We meet them when waiting for the bus, queuing up at the bank or even when having lunch at a restaurant. For most people, they often form an opinion on the people they meet the minute they meet. Their basis for this act is that 'first impression is always right'. Nonetheless, how true is this statement? Humans are complex creatures, thus, it is impossible to dissect them in just one minute. Therefore, though occasionally first impression may be right, most of the time they are not as knowing a person inside out is never an easy process.
Shrek in 'Shrek' quoted "Just like onions, I have layers". So true is that remark that each layer is different from the other. Humans are like that too. We have feelings and emotions, which not all of them are displayed in a single day. This in turn making the process of friendship a lengthy one. Therefore, to trust first impressions is obviously a silly act, as human characters are only fully understood only after a certain period of time.
In addition to that, moods also play an important role when we judge a person. Humans, as we all know, have their ups and downs and this often affect their judgment if they are not able to control it. The same goes when judging another person. When the mood is right, we might see everybody around us as saints and angels who really make our day. However, imagine when we had a bad day at work, even the nice considerate waiter might seem pushy.
Nevertheless, there could be another group of people who trust their instincts, and stand by it. These groups might argue that first impressions are based on instincts, and as instincts are subconsciously based on past experience, hence, first impressions are reliable. Their point is arguably true, but can anybody actually determine the amount of experience needed to ensure that the instinct is correct? Surely, nobody can.
In conclusion, humans are the most complex animals on the face of the earth. Just as much as we like to believe that we all feel happy for the same joyous moments, feel pain for same suffering, the truth is, it is not so. This is because we have different characteristics that differ us from one another. Therefore, as the saying "never judge a book by its cover", we should not fully trust in first impressions as it is not only cruel, but also unfair to the person we judge.