It is difficult to decide whether to build a business research center or an agriculture research center. As for me, I personally prefer to construct the agriculture research center in my country, China. There are two reasons for my position; the agriculture is very important to my country and the less young people like to work in the agriculture.
First of all, the agriculture is very important for my country. The large population cause my country to have the problem that there are still lots of people cannot eat enough food. If we do not improve our country's agriculture technology, it will be hard to resolve the food problem. So building the agriculture research center can offer us more information about the development technology and help us to produce more food. We can learn lots of other developed country's advantages through researching and use this information to advance our country's agriculture. Thus, the agriculture research center can give us many benefits.
Another reason is that the young people begin to ignore the agriculture in my country. They do not like to study agriculture, because they think they cannot earn a lot of money by learning agriculture. The flourishing business attracts them. Especially in villages, everybody wants to work in the city, and nobody care the corps. It causes only the old experts continue to study the agriculture, no new persons can help them to think the problems. The old experts have limited knowledge. They are hard to get the new things. If more young persons can be volunteers to work for agriculture, more problems will be resolved quickly. There, the young people need to realize the importance of agriculture, because they can make more profits in agriculture.
In short, people have different perspectives on building a business center or an agriculture center. However, I am convinced that we need to build the agriculture center. Following my country's situation, the question that whether the people can eat enough or not is the most important things. Therefore, the ignorance of agriculture will make our country go to the famine country.