The issue that children should help with household tasks is one that is open to debate. On the one hand, some people think that children should not be required to help if there is not need for them to do part of the household tasks. Some people also say that is preferable for children to devote more time to playing, reading and watching interest things on TV. On the other hand other people support the idea of teaching children household tasks and make them help at home. I adhere to the latter point of view. I base my opinion on the following points.
First, helping in our houses when we are children teaches us of the ways of doing household tasks. This might be very useful in our future, even if we can hire someone to do those things for us. I have three sisters and my mom always explained to us how to cook, clean or iron our clothes. We also had a maid to help us with most of the chores, but anyway my mom wanted us to learn. It is well known that is very difficult to correct the job of someone else if you don’t know the job yourself. Thanks to this learning, I can now handle many of my houses tasks, and when my maid cannot come to my house I anyway manage to go to work with my clothes clean or ironed. Moreover, it helped me grow by learning that all of us have responsibilities at home, even if it is a minor one such as preparing toasts for breakfast.
Second, doing the household tasks helps you be more tolerant with others, put yourself in their situation and understand them more. Before I practiced this kind of tasks at home, I usually though that keeping a house clean and tidy was a very simple and minor issue. Now, I don’t. I’ve learnt to appreciate how energy consuming doing the household can be and how many things need to be done before we arrive at home and see everything in perfect conditions. This has helped me grow as a more considerate person. I value the job of those who work for me. I’ve felt how boring and exhausting cleaning a house can be, and I try to recognize through a fair pay this job.
Third, I believe that you can learn household activities and help at home without resigning to other activities. When I was a child I helped my mom with part of the chores, but however had plenty of time to read and play with my friends. Doing part of the household did not affect either my academic performance or my social activities. Hence, as my sisters and I helped at home, my mom could also have a personal life and spend more time playing with us.
To sum up, I believe that is a good idea to make children help with some of the household tasks even if there is no need to do so because someone else can handle it. In my opinion, doing part of the household promotes children to grow and mature as responsible and considerate people, and does not affect their academic or personal life.