Rooms are one of the many important factors in a house. Architectures, when drawing the plan of a house consider these room-factors seriously. When we are buying a house, new or old, we place emphasis on the different types and number of rooms in the house, their conditions, seizes, general orientation and other factors of the very rooms like the windows, the height of the ceilings and so on. However, among the different types of rooms that can be found in today’s modern houses, I consider the most important to be the sitting room.
There is an adage or a saying that the sitting room is the marrow of the house. This is very right. For example if the sitting room is always dirty, one can always expect the whole house to be dirty too. So the living room shows the hygienic condition of the house.
Furthermore, the sitting room is very important because when we have visitors, we rarely invite them to our bedrooms or to the toilet or to the bathroom. No. We invite them to sit in the sitting room where we welcome them or discuss some issues. For sure, they look around to see how tidy is the room, how is it arranged and what we have in the house. That impression of the sitting room will always be with them about the whole house, about how we live and how tidy we are. In these regards, the sitting room serves as the face of the house, a sort of the public relations manager.
Apart from the above-mentioned reasons, the sitting room is much more important than the other rooms for the very purpose it is supposed to be: for sitting. Having a place to sit in the house is very important. For example, imagine coming from a very hard days job, very tired. Sure the first thing one does on getting to the house is to head for the sitting room, most probable get a cold drink from the refrigerator and relax by sitting down in the sitting room, put on the television and for a moment forget about the hard days job.
In conclusion, the sitting room is very important in the house for the purposes it serves, mainly, it portrays and gives impressions to others about how we live, how tidy we are, that is, it is the mirror and the public relation 'manager' of the house, and it is one of the best place where we can relax in the house.