People may have two choices to eat, either they go out to fast food stands or restaurants, or they prepare food at home, whatever suitable to them. In my case I prefer to go out to eat, as it is easy to get, it saves my time, and I can try variety of interesting food of different countries.
Being a working person, with all day long office work and driving long way, it becomes difficult to do all preparation for making food. For me easy way to get food is restaurant, where I can get prepared food at home or office by just ordering on phone, Along with that another comfort is, that when ever I have to eat together with my so many friends, I can always go to a restaurant, otherwise it’s difficult to prepare food at home for so many people and don’t get time to talk and having fun. So I always find it a easier way to eat out, apart from that It make my other outdoor activities possible because I don’t have to bother about food wherever I go, to any fun place or theater or traveling, restaurants are always there throughout city and it becomes easy every time to get food whenever and whenever I need according to other activities.
Besides that I can save a lot of time by getting food from restaurant as, I don’t have to go for vegetables and grocery shopping, I don’t need to clean, cut and fry food and do a lot kitchen work, doing dishes etc., instead I can get fresh food delivered in minutes. Along with that when I eat at restaurant I have more time to do other things like reading, watching TV, and listening music, going out theatre, or having fun with friends, that don’t make me tired or boring and I feel refreshed for next day work, so by going to restaurant I can manage a lot more activities instead preparing food.
In addition, in restaurant I get a variety of food choice, I can have taste of different regions, for example Indian restaurant I can get varied food from North Indian to South Indian Punjabi, Bengali, Madrasi, Maharashtrian, etc. at one place. Likewise, I can taste world wide food variety like pasta dishes in Italian restaurant, tortilla and burrito dishes in Mexican, pizza, and burger items in American, noodles in Chinese, etc. and can enjoy various vegetarian, non vegetarian dishes which are specialty of different countries.
Not only that, in restaurant the food is served with beautiful garnishing, that tempts for eating and is worth of paying. I find it very interesting to experience varied food in different restaurants.
To conclude I am fond of going stands and restaurants for eating that is suitable for me because of convenient, quick and variety of tasty food, which I enjoy very much and make my routine easier and interesting.