Nowadays, a lot of teens work in jobs while they are studying. Some of them really need the money they earn to compensate for their school expenses whereas others use the money they earn as pocket money. Whatever the reason for the students to work in jobs is, in my opinion, working is a great experience to all. Having a job is an important opportunity to learn about responsibilities and also teaches the teenagers to cooperate with their co-workers and enable them to understand the value of money.
To start with, working in a job gives teenagers lots of situations in which they should act responsibly; otherwise they will lose their jobs. For example, one has to wake up early if his/her working hours start at 8:00 AM in the morning, no matter how late he/she stayed up last night. Otherwise, his/her supervisor will warn him/her or may eventually fire the individual.
A second reason why having jobs as students has positive effects on teenagers is that it teaches them how to cooperate and the importance of cooperation. In a work setting usually the employees have to depend on each other on numerous occasions. When a single employee loafs, others will have to compensate for his/her workload in addition to their own tasks. Students will learn from their working experience the importance of cooperation and why every individual should effectively carry out his/her own work.
Another point is, these working possibilities enable the students to understand the value of money and that "Money does not grow on trees". After the student sees how hard he/she has to work to earn money, he/she will also be more reasonable while spending it, thus, his/her purchasing behavior will be enhanced.
In conclusion, when one has a job as a student, he/she will benefit significantly from the experience. This way, students will be more responsible when they graduate. Furthermore, they will be more cooperative, thus will be more beneficial for the companies they will be working in once they will be graduated. Finally, since they'll know better how to spend their money, they won't get into trouble due to excessive spending. All in all, having jobs as students is a terrific idea and I think every student should have a working experience before graduating and starting their professional careers.