Going to the movies is a pleasure for a lot of people and I'm one of those who are really fond of movies. When I heard that a new theater might be built in my neighborhood, I was first very excited about this idea. But after having had a good think about it, I wondered if it was really a good thing. First of all, I will focus on the reasons why I support this idea and secondly, I will move on to analyzing why I oppose this idea.
Over the past 10 years, it's abundantly clear that the seventh art has much changed. Indeed, from special effects to THX sound, we all could have seen the very progresses of the cinema. In spite of that, theaters remain the same and are getting older. As a matter of fact, it begins sometimes difficult for the audience to appreciate a movie at its real value. I mean, not only does the screen is most of the time to small, but the sound is also bad in a lot of theaters. In the case in point, it is bad in the old theater in my neighborhood. Therefore, I would say that it is a pity to see a "modern" movie in such conditions.
However, we should not forget that a theater is a place full of remembrances. For instance, a place where year after year, a lot of people have laughed, or shrilled, or cried in front of hundreds of movie, all different. Sometimes, you can see fathers who take their children in the same theater where they used to go twenty years earlier! We should bear all this in mind. So, I am in disagreement with those who think that a theater is just a place made of a screen, walls, and chairs, because it is much more than that. I strongly believe that it is made of remembrances and magic moments too.
All in all, as far as I am concerned, I agree to say that it would be a good idea to build a new theater in order to benefit from more comfort and better conditions. In the meantime, I can't help thinking that what matter most is, above all, all the remembrances kept into old theaters. To put it in a nutshell, I would say that I favor building a new theater, but I will keep on going to the older one.
  
 