I do agree with the statement that people should sometimes do things that they don't enjoy doing. And I would rather go as far as saying that they should try to enjoy things they are forced to do.
To exemplify, consider the following situations. Not all children love to study. Instead, being curious and enthusiastic, they love to explore the world around them, paying less attention to studies and more to other things. Should they be allowed to give up their studies? Certainly not. Or consider a very talented person, say a person with great academic record and excellent analytical skills trying for a job. Suppose the person is introvert but the company's recruitment process demands that he should go in through a group discussion. Should he give up because of this? I would strongly oppose his decision, if he does. Or consider a sportsperson being forced to go in for a drug test, because rules demand him to do so. The person being from a conservative background feels uncomfortable with this. Should he give up the sport just because he is being forced to do something he doesn't like? Well, I would say no.
So, the point is that there are situations in life, when one has to do something he/she doesn't like. And not doing the thing may have a large impact on his life. So, it’s sometimes wise to go against one's wishes. I don't advocate that one should always go against one's wishes when he/she is forced to take such decisions. It depends upon the importance and the urgency of a situation. For instance, one might want to quit up a job that one doesn't like. He may, infect he should do so, for perpetually doing something one doesn't like makes one's life miserable. But what if there's a recession in the economy and its hard to find jobs? He, of course should be careful in his decision, and it won't be unwise if he continues with his same, probably boring job.
To conclude, I would say that one should judge a situation according to its merits and make a wise decision whether or not he/she wants to do something, which he/she doesn't like. Compromising once in a while is sometimes a better choice.