Attending a live performance is really more enjoyable than watching the same event on television. As I am very interested in football matches, I have experienced that watching a football match at a stadium is not comparable with watching the same thing on TV. I never forget the first time that I went the stadium and the match is inscribed in my mind. It was an unforgettable event.
At a live performance, you can see everything that is not possible on TV. Cameras zoom on special scenes and you cannot see what is going on the rest of the stage. For example, at a football match, the cameraman always tries to see the ball and its related events. When you are watching a football match on TV you cannot see that a player kicks another one because it is out of stage. But when you are present at the stadium you can easily see it.
On the other hand, you can cheer and boo and even cry in a live performance. A crowd like you has attended the match. All cheer and shout together and it encourage you to take part in their happiness. This is really enjoyable. Imagine you were attending Michael Jackson show then you could dance, whistle and cheer. This was not the case when you were at home. You might be alone because others did not like that specific show or they wanted to study. So you could neither dance nor cheer. You had to sit before T.V and turn down its voice. It is not enjoyable at all.
Another advantage that you achieve by virtue of attending a live performance is that you can have the feeling of participating in the performance. Every thing is live. If it is a football match for instance, then it is as if you were playing yourself. You were part of the match and could sense the kicks of the players on the ball.
Above all advantages, there is only one disadvantage. It is that you must pay money to buy the ticket and spend time to reach the location of the performance. But it does not matter for me. By considering that I can achieve many things like seeing any event, cheering and shouting and feeling that I am participating in the performance are with no doubt unforgettable and highly enjoyable. I myself attend a football match even if it was in another country and it would cost me money and time.