The world always moves and develops all the time. Transportation vehicles also have been changed by time. So far, there have been many transportations vehicles such as: automobile, bicycles, and airplanes… When these transportations vehicles were invented, they all make people’s lives change. In these essay, I would like to talk about the way airplanes change people’s lives because among three transportations vehicles: automobiles, bicycles, airplanes, I think airplanes have changed people’s lives the most powerfully.
Firstly, airplanes change the way people move. Before airplanes were invented, people could go on land, on water and dreamed to fly like birds on the sky. The dream came true when the first airplane was produced. Since then, people have been able to fly on the sky, see everything from height. That’s wonderful feelings. Therefore, airplanes are great invention. They have given people new feelings. On the basic of airplanes, people can continue their dream more and more such as: coming to another plane…. Producing airplanes is the first step to approach to long step after that.
Secondly, advantages of airplane make people more comfortable in the life. The speed of airplane is very fast, so people can save time, which is one of the most precious things of each person. It takes a little time to go from one place to another than other transportation vehicles like automobiles, bicycles, and train… In Vietnam, it takes forty-eight hours to come from Hanoi to Ho Chi Mink city by automobile; meanwhile it takes two hours by airplane. Moreover, services of airplane firm are very good. Thus, it is convenient for passenger to choose airplane to go anywhere. Perhaps, airplanes aren’t the safest transportation means, but with long distance, it is better to choose airplane.
Finally, with airplanes, the relationship between people is more and more closer. It is easier to meet cousins in family, friends because going by airplane is very convenient. The special days like New Year, Noel… are gladder because every member in family can attend. The world seems to be smaller. Airplanes connect every part in the world. The distance wasn’t a big problem when airplanes were born. In conclusion, airplanes really change people’s lives. It is evident fact that all the affect of airplanes on people’s lives are good. Airplanes make life better.