Can knowledge of the past be beneficial for those of us living in the present? Some people think this information is useless, others believe it's significant. The former consider it obsolete. Although significant portion of the past knowledge can't be directly applied to the present day, learning about the past creates opportunities for scientific discoveries, prevents from repeating mistakes of the past, and contributes to the understanding of the purpose of our existence. Technological progress is induced by new scientific discoveries that would never occur without knowledge of prior achievements in the certain scientific field. Major innovations occurring in the industry are based on new scientific theories put into practice. Discovery of micro particles - electrons, protons and neutrons- in Physics revealed the possibility of creating the flow of electrons under the influence of the magnetic field. Every production process today is based on this latter discovery of electric current, which wouldn't be made without past knowledge of electrons existence.
Besides providing knowledge of fundamental discoveries, past experience helps prevent reoccurrence of negative events in the history of our civilization. School children learn about world wars cited in the history textbooks so that when they grow up they don't repeat mistakes of their predecessors. One of the brightest examples is atomic bomb dropped on Japan during World War the Second. Knowledge of such negative experiences is necessary for humanity to continue its existence.
Moreover, learning about the past helps satisfy people's desire to understand who they are and why they exist. History and Religion are necessary for a discussion of these main philosophical questions. If people haven't been learning about the past, Bible texts, which give answers to these questions, would never be preserved till the present day. In the same time Bible is the main guide for majority of the world population today.
Consequently, it's imperative to learn about the past, because this knowledge is valuable for the development of our civilization. Technological progress, avoidance of past mistakes, and contribution to understanding of the purpose of existence can only be achieved through understanding of our predecessors' lives and deeds.