Some people think "never give up" is a good attitude to life; others consider it is impossible never to give up because of the matters that surround us. I personally consider that "never give up" is not only good but is also appropriate attitude to life in order to succeed in this cruel world. In my opinion everybody must never give up himself when follows his aims. Even he has not achieved them he has to try again. Maybe next time he will succeed. I have always believed that this is the best way to survive. I will give you arguments to support my opinion.
First of all I think you have to trust yourself, realize your targets one by one, and never to give up in every difficult moment. People always have to put aims to their selves and follow them. When they achieve one aim they are satisfied of this success and put another aim to be reached. This is the man's nature. If you give up at the first problem you will lose belief in yourself and will reach nothing.
On the second place I would like to say that even if you fail you achieve much. Everybody knows that sometimes you cannot complete or even realize your goals because of the environment. I believe that you do not have to give up at first bad shot; you have to try again and again until you succeed. From the failures you learn how to proceed next time and revise your actions in order to thrive. I bet finally you will.
Last but not least "never give up" is the best way to survive in these days. If you do not have aims to achieve you are nothing. Your life will pass unnoticeably and you will be insignificant person that nobody sees. Many people around us always give us examples of never to give up. Ballet-dancers who were fractured their legs and with a lot of efforts manage to dance again because this is their main purpose. Deaf-and-dump people learn to communicate with gestures with the others. Thus give meaning of their lives. Undoubtedly reaching these targets is very hard but they never give up and they survive.
From the argument I have stated above it can be seen that no matter how difficult it is to realize your aims you have to never give up and this is the best attitude to life.