The qualities of a good son or daughter, through the ages, have a great deal of differences from those ones, which were approbated once. However, a few qualities are the same as the ones in the past years.
Firstly, I will give some changes in the following statements. In the past time of China, parents hope their son is so strong and brave that they would be supported and protected in their ages because man is easily able to earn living supply, such as food, clothes, house and so on, or make money to buy them. The daughter is expected being of tender and gentle so that she would get married a good man that means she would have a good fortune and her parents would not be worried because she does not make a living herself. As a good son or daughter, one of the most important qualities is he or she has to be obedient and submissive everything for their parent. For example, he or she would marry with a person who would be satisfied by their parents rather than loved by themselves. However, in modern society, no matter son or daughter, the best quality is that they are positive, motivating, and responsible facing their life. Parents hope their son or daughter capable of do everything independently and wisely referring to their suggestion.
Secondly, several good qualities are remained and are developed. With the development of society, more and more girls are educated and are able to support she, even others. Hence, the qualities of a good boy basically are the same as those of a good girl. In general, almost parents adore their children; in turn they need to be loved by them, especially the olds. Therefore, no matter modern or past time, to care for their parents is regard as one of the necessary qualities. Additional, their excellent behave and their parents, such as he, also appreciate amazing performance or she is diligent and concentrated in their study and do they’re best in doing everything.
Of course, every parent has different viewpoints of the qualities of a child. I think the most primary qualities are he or she is of love, enterprise and responsibility around them.