Success is the sweetest fruit a person desires in life. But the path to success is often so very confusing. In fact every successful person have his or her own recipe for this dish.
Careful planning is no doubt the most rational way to achieve success in life. Unless and until we plan our steps ahead of time our work doesn't remain well organized and until our effort is organized properly we may not achieve success. However, human beings being mortal and their powers being limited, no one can predict the future with a very high degree of accuracy. Thus arises the necessity of making predictions and taking risks. There may be times when we are faced with multiple alternatives none of which are perfectly favorable - we have to make a guess and perhaps hope for the best.
In our country, we are required to qualify in a competitive examination in order to get admitted into an Engineering College. The first time I sat for this examination, I failed miserably. I had to get admitted into a General college with Physics as my major. I then decided to go for the technical colleges a second time. I did it and did it well. In my Physics course, however, I barely managed to pass through into the second year. It was a great risk. I could have failed in the competitive examination the second time too. I could have fell sick on the day of the examination. I could have got into a big trouble. In fact, some of my friends who took the same examination with me failed the second time too and are now passing through hard times.
So, there cannot be any golden rule to success. It's a recipe with a bowl of planning and perhaps one or two spoonful of risks. The exact proportions depend largely on the individual concerned and the situation. Those who can identify the correct proportions come out with flying colors; others fade into the millions. God has not given us the power to predict the future, but he has surely equipped all of us to be able to measure the pros and cons. We are all capable of taking calculated risks and that's what is required. How much calculation and how much risk. Well, no golden rule!