Some people think that businesses should do anything they can to make a profit. In my opinion, these people are thinking a little bit selfish, because there are other things that a business should do, for example considering the workers, costumers. Beside all these a business should serve the community.
The most important thing to realize is that, a person who is serving the costumers and the community should always be honest. In my opinion honesty is the most important quality a business should have in order to deserve the profit it makes. Earning money by playing trick on consumers or getting more money than it deserves is so bad that I don’t think a business which makes profit out of dishonesty can carry on with success. In a business all the workers must consider the other workers, the costumers and the community they live in. Colleagues are also very important; they should respect each other and should never forget that business is teamwork. If a business is making large profits, it should share it with the people who made that profit possible. If a worker cannot get what he deserves either economically or mentally he may not be able to work effectively in the future.
The other important thing is that some of the profits one’s business earns from the community should be returned to the community. For example if big company is earning a lot of money, it should never forget that the money comes from community so it should return some of the profit back to community. There are various ways to do it. For example a company can built a park for the children or crèche just like public nursery for the children of the workers, get the trust of the workers.
The last very important point is to get customers’ trust. A small company may grow into a large company after sometime but if it wants to be long lasting, it should always try to produce high-quality products, and give good service to its costumers.
Generally, it can be said that the most important thing for a business is to make a profit; a business should never do anything to make a large profit. There are more important things such as serving the costumers, workers and community .A business must make profits, but we all - workers, customers, community- must profit from a successful business.