Parents and adult relatives play a significant role in shaping a child's life. They teach them how to live, and struggle for the right things. However when children grow up, often they fail to realize the contributions of their parents and adult relatives in their lives. Teenage children think that being a teenager they are able to make all the decisions of their lives. In my opinion, parents and adult relatives should make important decisions for their teenage children because teenagers are inexperienced, overconfident and many times they do not realize the consequences that the important decisions can have on their lives.
Teenagers, being new in the adult world and having their first experiences of their adult lives, think themselves as grownups and perfectly able to make their own decisions. However, most of the times, their friends influence their decisions. For example a student may get into a top university, but just because his/her friend is going to college, he/she wishes to go to college too. In this case the decision is obviously influential, and can have great negative effects on his/ her life. At such a point the parents or the adult relatives should make decisions for their children.
Another reason why parents or the adult relatives decisions are very important is that the teenagers are over confident. The teenagers haven’t still been into practical life, and they don’t have an idea of how the practical world works. Especially before the university, teenagers are living in kind of a fantasy world, where they think everything is cool and perfect. For example they might think that playing basketball in the school gym is definitely going to get them selected on the national team. This may be true in some cases, but usually it doesn’t work out this way. So if the teenager just neglects his/her studies, he/she is going to be definitely in loss. At such points, like choosing the subjects in high school, parents and/or adult relatives should make decisions for their teenage children.
In conclusion, although teenagers might think the decisions being imposed on them as a stone in their paths, it is infect a blessing for them. Teenagers, being irresponsible, and inexperienced are not always able to make decisions for themselves. Hence parents and/or adult relatives should make the decisions for them.