Language is the best mean of communication. In globalization era, one language is definitely not enough for one to be able to communicate well with foreigner. I strongly support the idea that children should begin learning a foreign language as soon as they start school. They will get themselves familiar with new language, improve hearing ability as the time goes by, and learn to speak new word early.
In my country, Thailand, it is compulsory for all children to start learning English at the age of three or four. However, they learn only a few word like one, two, three and simple animal names. It is more fun to know other languages especially when children begin to learn with very easy vocabulary. The learning process is more fun for them. Most language books for kids are colorful and fun to read. It gets children familiar with new languages without feeling afraid or bore to learn.
No doubt, early start means more time for practice. Children can improve their hearing ability from foreign movie, songs, or from tourists. They might not be able to understand the whole conversation but they will hear the word they have learned and know how to pronounce them correctly. I have read the book about bringing up a child where parents speak two languages; there is no problem for a child to learn two languages at the same time. Psychologist said a child will not get confuse but he will be able to speak two languages which will surely be one asset for the future.
In addition, children would start to say a word or sentence early and do not worry so much about mistake as most adults do. You cannot refuse the fact that adults always concern more about grammar and pronunciation of the new languages. This is one of the big barriers for learning. Adults are afraid and not say at all afterward. Language is a matter of practicing not avoiding. Children will start to say what they learn regardless of rule or grammatical part. And that is the best way to learn language.
To me, children can receive new things fast and their development is always progressing. Time and practice will make them master in new language, which will benefit them when they grow up. All in all, language is an art, which one should learn as early as possible. If one wants to see outcome soon, one must start sooner.
  
 