Whether boys and girls should attend separate schools or not is a complex and controversial issue. Some people think attending separate schools is benefit for boys and girls to put their heart into studies. On the other hand, other people argue that boys and girls would be benefit from not only studies but also social skills if they were put together in the same schools. In the final analysis, I prefer the latter one to the former one. In the following discussion, I would like to have evidence to support my view.
First of all, the disadvantage of attending separate schools is that the mutual sex will be suffering in the future because of lacking the knowledge about the opposite sex. One of my friends, for example, who was in separate high schools, lost the regular psychological mind after breaking up with her first boy friend. Because she didn’t know boys very well, she hoped they could get along well as the relationship between she and her girlfriends. However, her boyfriend didn’t do as what her girlfriends did such as going shopping for a whole day. She was disappointed by him and had an extremely terrible fight with him. They broke up in the end. She was hurt so deeply that couldn’t control her behavior any more.
Second of the place, the advantage of attending mixture schools is that boys and girls can help each other more efficient than those in separate schools. Because of different physical minds, they have different ways to think about questions. When they communicate together, they exactly can get some new ideas from others. I still remember after discussing with my partner who was a smart guy, I learned to consider the same thing with different ways. In this case, I really benefit from those experiences to work out every possibility in my work.
However, it may be true that in the mixed schools students will be affected by falling love so early. But the thing is when girls from separate schools meet strangers they are much easier be attracted by opposite sex than those from mixed schools. So this alone can’t constitute sufficient support to the view that boys and girls should attend separate schools.
Given the reasons discussed above, the conclusion, which may intertwine at the beginning of discussion and thus become more persuasive, may be safely reached that it’s not necessary for boys and girls to attend separate schools.