Technology as we all know has changed the way we live our lives in this new millennium. It has affected each and every faucet of people from all countries irrespective of cultural and physical boundaries. Now many people may argue with the fact that, not all change brought due to the technological revolution has resulted in progress for the human kind. But I strongly support the argument that technology has made the world a better place to live. I will explain my point of view with examples and reasoning in the following paragraphs.
First of all, technology has improved the quality of our lives. For example, in our working lives where we use computers, which help us plan and execute our work faster. And also for instance the communication technology, which has revolutionized the way people around the world, talk and share information. Previously, pigeons were used to transmit information, now due to efforts of many scientists and organizations we have mediums such as e-mail, telephone, fax which allow people to share information, in ways which was never thought possible before. All this results in people meeting and sharing thoughts and exchanging knowledge, which eventually leads to betterment of mankind.
Secondly, It has made it possible to do things unimagined before. For instance, it was never thought possible to cure people of some diseases and disabilities. But path breaking applications of radioactive isotopes in cancer treatment and artificial limb implants in disabled persons are some instances where technology has given people a new ray of hope.
It has also resulted in increasing the efficiency of humans. A good example of this are the machines used in factories which are 1000 times more efficient in doing some repetitive tasks compared to humans. This results in industry being able to supply the increasing demands of the ever-increasing population. Good examples of this are cars and packaged food products.
Technology has also given us a second chance in case of unexpected events like diseases and natural calamities. Because of technology we can better respond to these problems. For example, vaccines are used extensively throughout the world when any particular pandemic or epidemic breaks out and now less life are lost due to natural disasters than before, thanks to the state of the art search and rescue equipment.
Lastly, it has given us a purpose of our life. For example space technology has strived to explain our origins in the universe. Meanwhile also finding the roots of our own evolution. All this results in a better understanding of the forces of nature controlling our existence and better utilizing them for our own good.
In conclusion, I fully support the statement that technology has made our world a better place to live and also gives us a means by which we can preserve the best of our world for future generations to come.