I agree that modern technology is creating a single world culture because it disseminates knowledge beyond the geographic borders of a location. When people communicate they exchange ideas and feelings. In the ancient era, culture was passed from parents to children by spoken language. Knowledge, traditions and beliefs were transferred to the youngest through speaking and in some cases writing or drawing. Thus, at that time, culture was very restricted to the tribe, village or the community were they lived.
The modern means of transportation, in my opinion, was the first invention that contributed strongly to the spread of cultures throughout the planet. The advance of automobiles, airplanes and ships made incredibly easier to be in other parts of the planet. People started to know more about other cultures and many times introducing to their own culture things learned in other places and countries. The exchange of knowledge and goods started to play an important role in people’s life. The café from Brazil, the scotch from Scotland, the cigars from Cuba, the wine from France, the American music, are good examples of how other countries products are rooted in our day-by-day life and our culture.
Furthermore, in the past few years we have experienced a new wave of technology. Internet, mobile phones, email, e-commerce, are some words that resume what is present in our quotidian. As never before was so easy to communicate to one another. Consequently the world is creating a whole new definition of culture. It is the culture of mass that transcends the geographical borders, permitting that you feel at home anywhere in the planet. The people’s behavior and architecture has been standardized either. Picture yourself, for instance, in a hotel room in Japan, Rio de Janeiro or New York. In most cases you will receive the same treatment in all those places and the interior designs all look the same, as the services provided. The reason they do this is to make everyone fell as he was in his own hometown, not mattering where you are from.
In conclusion, modern technology has facilitated our lives enormously. But the price paid for the advancement of technology is that some countries, if they do not stand hard at their beliefs and traditions, they will lose their identity to absorb the globalize culture.
