We are going to school to get our knowledge. Our parents are paying money for our education and they expect us to get the best one. And how disappointed they are if we are getting bad grades. They are paying money and don't see any result. Their kids do not learn too much. May be its teacher's fault. May be parents should pay less money? A lot of parents think like this. But I disagree with the statement that teachers should be paid according to how much their students learn.
I think that everything depends on a student and his willingness to study. So why should teachers be paid according to students desire? Teachers help us to understand a lot of things from the books if we cannot afford them. And if students do not want to study, why should teachers suffer?
Teachers have been studying for many years. They became teachers through so many difficulties and efforts. As far as I know if you want to be a teacher you have to study a lot. You have to get very good education, because you will take responsibility for the rest of your life-to teach others since you have finished the education. That means that the teachers spent a lot of time, energy to get their degree. And I think that they have already deserved to be well paid.
People were always paid for their knowledge. As much as you know, as much as you are awarded. I think that teachers know a lot, in such a way they should be paid well for their knowledge. And it does not depend on how much their students learnt. I think that there is no bad teachers- there are only bad students. And if the student explains lack of his knowledge because of a teacher that means that he never tried. He never tried to study; he never tried to ask his teacher for help, he never wanted to get more than his laziness.
That's why I think that teachers should not be paid according to how much their students learn. I believe that every teacher wants his student to get the best knowledge. And it is not his fault that the student didn't want the same thing.